I learn in this letterthat Don Peter of Arragon
comes thisnight to Messina.
He is very near by this:
he was not three leaguesoff when I left him.
How many gentlemen haveyou lost in this action?
But few of anysort, and none of name.
A victory is twice itselfwhen the achiever
brings home full numbers.
I find here that Don Peterhath bestowed much honour
on a youngFlorentine called Claudio.
Much deserved on his part
and equally rememberedby Don Pedro:
he hath borne himself beyondthe promise of his age,
doing, in the figure of a lamb,
the feats of a lion:
I pray you,
is Signior Mountanto returnedfrom the wars or no?
I know none of that name, lady:
there was none such inthe army of any sort.
What is he that youask for, niece?
My cousin meansSignior Benedick of Padua.
O, he's returned; and aspleasant as ever he was.
I pray you, how many hath hekilled and eaten in these wars?
But how manyhath he killed?
for indeed I promised toeat all of his killing.
Faith, niece, you taxSignior Benedick too much;
but he'll bemeet with you,
I doubt it not.
He hath done good service,lady, in these wars.
You had musty victual, andhe hath holp to eat it:
he is a very valianttrencherman;
he hath anexcellent stomach.
And a goodsoldier too, lady.
And a good soldier to a lady:but what is he to a lord?
A lord to a lord,a man to a man;
stuffed with allhonourable virtues.
It is so, indeed; he is noless than a stuffed man:
but for thestuffing,
-well, we are all mortal.
You must not, sir,mistake my niece.
There is a kind ofmerry war betwixt
Signior Benedick and her:
they never meet but there's askirmish of wit between them.
Alas! he gets nothing by that.
In our last conflict four of hisfive wits went halting off,
and now is the wholeman governed with one:
so that if he have wit enoughto keep himself warm,
let him bear itfor a difference
between himselfand his horse;
for it is all thewealth that he hath left,
to be known areasonable creature.
Who is his companion now?
He hath every montha new sworn brother.
Is't possible?
Very easily possible:
he wears his faith but asthe fashion of his hat;
it ever changes withthe next block.
I see, lady, the gentlemanis not in your books.
No; an he were, Iwould burn my study.
But, I pray you,who is his companion?
Is there no youngsquarer now
that will make a voyagewith him to the devil?
He is most in the company ofthe right noble Claudio.
O Lord, he will hang uponhim like a disease:
he is sooner caughtthan the pestilence,
and the takerruns presently mad.
God help thenoble Claudio!
if he havecaught the Benedick,
it will cost him a thousandpound ere a' be cured.
I will hold friendswith you, lady.
Do, good friend.
You will neverrun mad, niece.
No, not till ahot January.
Don Pedro is approached.
(♪music)
Good Signior Leonato, you arecome to meet your trouble:
the fashion of the worldis to avoid cost,
and you encounter it.
Never came trouble to my housein the likeness of your grace:
for trouble being gone,comfort should remain;
but when you depart from me,
sorrow abides andhappiness takes his leave.
You embrace yourcharge too willingly.
I think this isyour daughter.
Her mother hathmany times told me so.
Were you in doubt,sir, that you asked her?
Signior Benedick, no;for then were you a child.
You have it full, Benedick:
Truly, the ladyfathers herself.
Be happy, lady; for you arelike an honourable father.
If SigniorLeonato be her father,
she would not have his head onher shoulders for all Messina,
as like him as she is.
I wonder that youwill still be talking,
Signior Benedick:nobody marks you.
What, my dearLady Disdain!
are you yet living?
Is it possibledisdain should die
while she hath such meet food tofeed it as Signior Benedick?
Courtesy itself mustconvert to disdain,
if you come inher presence.
Then iscourtesy a turncoat.
But it is certain I amloved of all ladies,
only you excepted:
and I would I couldfind in my heart
that I had not a hard heart;for, truly, I love none.
A dear happiness to women:they would else have been
troubled with apernicious suitor.
I thank God andmy cold blood,
I am of your humour for that:
I had rather hear mydog bark at a crow
than a man swearhe loves me.
God keep your ladyshipstill in that mind!
so some gentleman orother shall 'scape
a predestinate scratched face.
Scratching couldnot make it worse,
an 'twere such aface as yours were.
Well, you are arare parrot-teacher.
A bird of my tongue is betterthan a beast of yours.
I would my horse hadthe speed of your tongue,
and so good a continuer.
But keep yourway, i' God's name;
I have done.
You always end with a jade'strick: I know you of old.
That is the sumof all, Leonato.
Signior Claudio andSignior Benedick,
my dear friend Leonatohath invited you all.
I tell him we shall stayhere at the least a month;
and he heartily prays someoccasion may detain us longer.
I dare swear heis no hypocrite,
but prays from his heart.
If you swear, my lord,you shall not be forsworn.
Let me bid youwelcome, my lord:
being reconciled to theprince your brother,
I owe you all duty.
I thank you: I amnot of many words,
but I thank you.
Please it yourgrace lead on?
Your hand, Leonato;we will go together.
Benedick, didst thou note thedaughter of Signior Leonato?
I noted her not;but I looked on her.
Is she not amodest young lady?
Do you question me, asan honest man should do,
for my simpletrue judgment;
or would you have mespeak after my custom,
as being a professedtyrant to their sex?
No; I pray theespeak in sober judgment.
Why, i' faith, methinks she'stoo low for a high praise,
too brown for a fair praise andtoo little for a great praise:
only this commendationI can afford her,
that were she otherthan she is,
she were unhandsome; and beingno other but as she is,
I do not like her.
Thou thinkest I am in sport:
I pray thee tell me trulyhow thou likest her.
Would you buy her, thatyou inquire after her?
Can the worldbuy such a jewel?
In mine eye she isthe sweetest lady
that ever I looked on.
I can see yet without spectaclesand I see no such matter:
there's her cousin,
an she were notpossessed with a fury,
exceeds her as much inbeauty as the first of May
doth the last of December.
But I hope you have no intentto turn husband, have you?
I would scarcetrust myself,
though I hadsworn the contrary,
if Hero would be my wife.
Is't come to this?
In faith, hath notthe world one man
but he will wear hiscap with suspicion?
Shall I never see a bachelorof three-score again?
Go to, i' faith;
an thou wilt needs thrustthy neck into a yoke,
wear the print of itand sigh away Sundays.
Look Don Pedro isreturned to seek you.
What secret hathheld you here,
that you followednot to Leonato's?
I would your grace wouldconstrain me to tell.
I charge thee onthy allegiance.
You hear, Count Claudio: Ican be secret as a dumb man;
I would have you think so;
but, on my allegiance,
mark you, on my allegiance.
He is in love.
With who?
now that isyour grace's part.
Mark how shorthis answer is;
-With Hero,Leonato's short daughter.
If this were so,so were it uttered.
Like the old tale, mylord: 'it is not so,
nor 'twas notso, but, indeed,
God forbid it should be so.'
If my passion changenot shortly,
God forbid it shouldbe otherwise.
Amen, if you love her; for thelady is very well worthy.
You speak this tofetch me in, my lord.
By my troth, Ispeak my thought.
And, in faith, mylord, I spoke mine.
And, by my twofaiths and troths,
my lord, I spoke mine.
That I love her, I feel.
That she isworthy, I know.
That I neither feel howshe should be loved
nor know how sheshould be worthy,
is the opinion that firecannot melt out of me:
I will die in it at the stake.
Thou wast ever anobstinate heretic
in the despite of beauty.
And never couldmaintain his part
but in the force of his will.
That a womanconceived me, I thank her;
that she brought me up,
I likewise give hermost humble thanks:
but all women shall pardon me.
Because I will not do themthe wrong to mistrust any,
I will do myself theright to trust none;
and the fine is, for thewhich I may go the finer,
I will live a bachelor.
I shall seethee, ere I die,
look pale with love.
With anger, withsickness, or with hunger,
my lord, not with love:
prove that ever I losemore blood with love
than I will get againwith drinking,
pick out mine eyes witha ballad-maker's pen
and hang me up at thedoor of a brothel-house
for the signof blind Cupid.
Well, if ever thou dostfall from this faith,
thou wilt prove anotable argument.
If I do, hang me in a bottlelike a cat and shoot at me;
and he that hits me, let himbe clapped on the shoulder,
and called Adam.
Well, as time shall try:
'In time the savage bulldoth bear the yoke.'
The savage bull may;
but if ever thesensible Benedick bear it,
pluck off the bull's hornsand set them in my forehead:
and let me be vilely painted,
and in such greatletters as they write
'Here is good horse to hire,'let them signify under my sign
'Here you may see Benedickthe married man.'
Well, youtemporize with the hours.
In the meantime,good Signior Benedick,
repair to Leonato's: commendme to him and tell him
I will not fail him at supper;
for indeed he hathmade great preparation.
I have almost matter enoughin me for such an embassage;
and so I commit you--
To the tuition of God: Frommy house, if I had it,
- The sixth of July: Yourloving friend, Benedick.
Mock not, mock not.
ere you flout oldends any further,
examine your conscience:and so I leave you.
My liege, your highnessnow may do me good.
My love is thine toteach: teach it but how,
And thou shalt see howapt it is to learn
Any hard lesson thatmay do thee good.
Hath Leonatoany son, my lord?
No child but Hero;she's his only heir.
Dost thouaffect her, Claudio?
O, my lord, When you wentonward on this ended action,
I look'd upon her witha soldier's eye,
That liked, but had arougher task in hand
Than to drive likingto the name of love:
But now I am return'dand that war-thoughts
Have left their placesvacant, in their rooms
Come thronging softand delicate desires,
All prompting me howfair young Hero is,
Saying, I liked herere I went to wars.
Thou wilt be likea lover presently
And tire the hearerwith a book of words.
If thou dost love fairHero, cherish it,
And I will break with herand with her father,
And thou shalt have her.
Was't not to this end
That thou began'st totwist so fine a story?
How sweetly you dominister to love,
That know love'sgrief by his complexion!
But lest my likingmight too sudden seem,
I would have salved itwith a longer treatise.
What need the bridge muchbroader than the flood?
The fairest grantis the necessity.
Look, what will serve is fit:
'tis once, thou lovest, And Iwill fit thee with the remedy.
I know we shall haverevelling to-night:
I will assume thy partin some disguise
And tell fair HeroI am Claudio,
And in her bosom I'llunclasp my heart
And take her hearingprisoner with the force
And strong encounterof my amorous tale:
Then after to herfather will I break;
And the conclusionis, she shall be thine.
In practise let usput it presently.
How now, brother!
Where is mycousin?
hath heprovided this music?
He is very busy about it.
But, brother, I cantell you strange news
that you yet dreamt not of.
Are they good?
As the event stamps them:but they have a good cover;
they show well outward.
The prince andCount Claudio,
walking in a thick-pleachedalley in mine orchard,
were thus much overheardby a man of mine:
the prince discoveredto Claudio
that he loved myniece your daughter
and meant to acknowledgeit this night in a dance:
and if he found her accordant,
he meant to take thepresent time by the top
and instantly breakwith you of it.
Hath the fellow anywit that told you this?
A good sharp fellow:I will send for him;
and question him yourself.
No, no; we will hold it as adream till it appear itself:
but I will acquaintmy daughter withal,
that she may be the betterprepared for an answer,
if peradventure this be true.
Go you and tell her of it.
Cousins, you knowwhat you have to do.
O, I cry youmercy, friend;
go you with me, and Iwill use your skill.
Good cousin, have acare this busy time.
What thegood-year, my lord!
why are you thusout of measure sad?
There is no measure inthe occasion that breeds;
therefore thesadness is without limit.
You should hear reason.
And when I have heard it,what blessing brings it?
If not a present remedy, atleast a patient sufferance.
I wonder that thou, being,as thou sayest thou art,
born under Saturn, goest about
to apply a moral medicineto a mortifying mischief.
I cannot hide what I am: Imust be sad when I have cause
and smile at no man's jests,
eat when I have stomach andwait for no man's leisure,
sleep when I am drowsy andtend on no man's business,
laugh when I am merry andclaw no man in his humour.
Yea, but you must not makethe full show of this
till you may do itwithout controlment.
You have of late stoodout against your brother,
and he hath ta'en younewly into his grace;
where it is impossible youshould take true root
but by the fair weatherthat you make yourself:
it is needful that you frame theseason for your own harvest.
I had rather be a canker in ahedge than a rose in his grace,
and it better fits my bloodto be disdained of all
than to fashion a carriageto rob love from any:
in this, though I cannot be saidto be a flattering honest man,
it must not be denied but Iam a plain-dealing villain.
I am trusted with a muzzle andenfranchised with a clog;
therefore I have decreednot to sing in my cage.
If I had mymouth, I would bite;
if I had my liberty, Iwould do my liking:
in the meantime let me be thatI am and seek not to alter me.
Can you make no useof your discontent?
I make all use ofit, for I use it only.
Who comes here?
What news, Borachio?
I came yonder froma great supper:
the prince your brother isroyally entertained by Leonato:
and I can give you intelligenceof an intended marriage.
Will it serve for any modelto build mischief on?
What is he for a fool
that betroths himselfto unquietness?
Marry, it is yourbrother's right hand.
Who?
the mostexquisite Claudio?
Even he.
A proper squire!
And who, and who?
which way looks he?
Marry, on Hero, the daughterand heir of Leonato.
A very forwardMarch-chick!
How came you to this?
Being entertainedfor a perfumer,
as I wassmoking a musty room,
comes me theprince and Claudio,
hand in hand in sad conference:
I whipt me behind the arras;and there heard it agreed upon
that the prince shouldwoo Hero for himself,
and having obtained her,give her to Count Claudio.
Come, come, let us thither:
this may prove foodto my displeasure.
That young start-up hath allthe glory of my overthrow:
if I can cross him any way,
I bless myself every way.
You are both sure,and will assist me?
To the death, my lord.
Let us to the great supper:
their cheer is the greaterthat I am subdued.
Would the cookwere of my mind!
Shall we go provewhat's to be done?
We'll wait uponyour lordship.